The Bitcoin Blockchain currently uses miners and proof-of-work to achieve consensus.
Using the debug console,
we can check out information about miners on the network.
In this video, we'll cover two commands you can use
to explore mining info using your debug console.
We'll cover getmininginfo and prioritisetransaction.
These commands are a great way to get an overview of the state of each block,
it provides ways to use block data that might
help you with creating and testing applications later on.
First, let's look at getmininginfo.
getmininginfo returns an overview of mining related information,
this helps you understand some pretty interesting things
like which block is currently being worked on by a minor.
Using the help command,
you can see that it will return the current block,
the weight of the last block,
transaction information and more.
I'll run this now by typing getmininginfo.
Here it shows we're currently on this block along with some other information.
If you're still wondering why the blockchain is so large to download,
here's a good example of why.
Even being on the test net,
we're still sync to over 1,000,000 blocks,
with each block being around two megabytes,
this can easily take up a lot of space.
Another command I wanted to show you was prioritisetransaction.
This command accepts a transaction into mined blocks at a higher or lower priority.
This means that you can control the likelihood and
order that transactions will be accepted into blocks.
Having this type of control can be very helpful
later on when building and testing your applications.
Using the help function,
you can see that it needs three inputs to run,
the transaction id, a dummy value and a fee_delta.
This is a little more complicated than other commands.
This may come up again in testing,
but we can avoid running it for now.
I just wanted to mention this command to show you that this type of thing is possible.
One thing you might notice is that prioritise is
spelled with an 'S' where normally I'd spell it with a Z,
that's common in the UK and it tells us
that whoever came up with this was likely from there.
Given that Satoshi Nakamoto is still unknown,
maybe this is a clue that they are from the UK? You never know.
We might just find them someday using clues like this,
but anyway, there's some of the commands related to mining.
To recap, we just went over getmininginfo and prioritisetransaction.
These types of commands will be very useful as we begin creating our own applications.
Feel free to explore these further,
before moving on to other commands.